
Is there a discernible pattern to the way scientific ideas change over time? When scientists abandon their existing theory in favour of a new one, how should we explain this? Are later scientific theories objectively better than earlier ones? Or does the concept of objectivity make sense at all?

In 1963 Kuhn published a book called The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, unquestionably the most influential work of philosophy of science in the last 50 years.



-----------------------------------
logical positivism (LP)

The original logical positivists were a loosely knit group of philosophers and scientists who met in Vienna in the 1920s and early 1930s, under the leadership of Moritz Schlick. (Carl Hempel, whom we met in Chapter 3, was closely associated with the positivists, as was Karl Popper.)

One of their aims was to make philosophy itself more ‘scientific’, in the hope that this would allow similar advances to be made in philosophy.

Science for the positivists was thus a paradigmatically rational activity, the surest route to the truth that there is.

LP ignored history of science, as they drew distinction between
two contexts: discovery and justification.

LP believed that context of discovery was a subjective, psychological process without any precise rules, and that justification was an objective matter of logic.

Example: Kekule discovered the hexagonal structure of benzene through his dream of ourouboros. LP thinks that dream is silly and irrelevant (discovery), what matters how justified it.

 The positivists believed that disputes between rival scientific theories could be solved in a perfectly objective way – by comparing the theories directly with the ‘neutral’ observational facts, which all parties could accept.


-----------------------------------
 Insufficient attention to the history of science had led the positivists to form an inaccurate and naïve picture of the scientific enterprise, Kuhn maintained.


Central to Kuhn’s account of normal science is the concept of a paradigm

a paradigm is an entire scientific outlook—a constellation of shared assumptions, beliefs, and values which unite a scientific community and allow normal science to take place.

Normal science essentially is operating within a reality defined by this paradigm. The book says that normal science would take operate under a paradigm without question. In short, they are not to question the truthfulness, by iterate and build upon on it for improvements.

---

A period of revolutionary science begins when the existing paradigmn starts to break down due to accumulated anomalies that the paradigm couldn't explain or account for. It is on these dark times that the cranks rise up from the bottom-most pit of degenarcy and propose their ideas AHAHA.

This is a bit abstract, so let me think of a concrete scenario.

Hmmm... Let's see. Oh how about something related to currents.
Oh yeah, what about ALIUMS!?!?! By alium, I mean ALIENS!!!!!111
I just pronounce alien as aliums in my head. Dont ask.

An example of anomaly that challenges current scientific paradigm would be the physically impossible movement of UAPs. Or least, reports of UAPs. I'm still very open minded about the recent alien reports and findings, but it is definitely exciting times. The most boring (and likely wrong) explanation is that those are just mere glitches in the hardware sensors. Another explanation is that the reports are psyops.

I haven't thought about it too deeply and hard, but my intuition (guided by random commentaries on the internet) is that both this explanations are way off. 

---

A lot of scientists and philosophers (likely the realist ones) got butthurt over kuhnian model of how paradigms shift to another, because kuhn states that paradigm shifts are not done by reason and evidence alone, but also through faith and peer pressure, implying that science is not all that rational. The kuhnian model always states that new paradigms aren't necessarily better in comparison to older ones, only that the newer ones are just different and provides a different worldview. Kuhn also contents the idea of objective truth, as facts are paradigm-relative. The book says that kuhn espouses a radical form of anti-realism. Which makes sense, I am also anti-realist, so I found myself nodding in favor of the kuhnian model.

---

Due to my shitty programming, I lost some of my recent notes. Not that it's anything important, but I was hoping to retrace my train of thought some time later. 

At least, I kept some notes here.

Anyways, I will hold on from taking notes for now and continue writing about aliums. This topic is very much relevant to epistemology anyways.

To start with, I've been watching videos related to UFO, UAP and everything mystical and occult in between. They are a nice source of entertainment and a good stimulus for my imagination. I'm am very open minded about such things. If I learned anything from dipping my toes into philosophy of science, it's that science (or the process of) is not that rigorous or rational as a lot of people believe it to be. I subscribe to the ideas of Kuhn and that guy with a very difficult name (Freyebend I think), and probably Hume and others whose name I forgot. Math is rigorous, precise and logical, but math's correspondence to the real world is fuzzy and (sometimes?) coincidental.

To which I say, speculating and imagining about the uncharted sections of reality is pretty much part of science. It's not necessarily dumb or delusional, provided one doesn't venture too much into the unknown. Yes, I am dumb and occasionally delusional, but not because I have open mind about the unknown. 

Which is why I am annoyed when I see intellectual edgelords on the internet or youtube that are very dismissive about aliens, atlantis and other occult stuffs, and their arguments pretty much consists of their own institutionalized narrowmindedness and assuming that the proponents are dumb and delusional.

I have a very specific example in mind. Consider ancient aliens. Authorities of science label it a pseudo-science because it is very speculative and not evidence to support it. Yet, and yet, the very same authorities of science laud and praise things like big bang theory, which is way more speculative and lacking of evidence. Kind of mind-blowing really.

Why the double standards? I can think of two reasons. One reason is that the proponents of the occult don't have enough prestige and pedigree to recieve the blessings of high authority of science. When it's some randos saying some weird stuffs, it "pseudoscience". But when the big shots from the fancy Universities says some weird stuffs, it's "theory".

Second reason is that the conspiracy theorists and occults didn't have the balls to slather hard math equations on their unworldly ramblings. Put enough greek symbols on it, and the skeptics would be too confused by their own migraines to disagree.

To be fair, some particular studies or documentaries about ancient aliens probably are junk, not that the idea itself is junk.

It's kind of sad really how our perception of reality is very dependent being educated and institutionalized by the authories of knowledge.

I'm not saying we should believe in anything, just that there is a definite asymmetry of skepticism here. I would have no qualms if the ufo skeptics applied the same level skepticism other things, like to the food and medicines they unquestioningly ingest, to the things they apply on their body, or the things they unquestionly believe because science says so.

Alas, I am too guilty of the asymmetry of skepticism. I think current hype in AI is bullshit. But I formed my own opinions and reasons about it, so I think my skepticism is warranted. The same thing cannot be said by a lot of ufo skeptics, who are merely unthinkingly parroting what they have been said many times in the past, regardless whether those arguments still apply.

I realize the disingenuousity of comparing outlandish things to everyday things that are products of science. Some things do require more skepticism than others, but nothing is exempt from skepticism, even with the blessings of science, and especially with things that have clear minority benefactories. But on the same level of outlandishness, like anything outerspace or outside our testable emperical boundaries, skepticism must be symmetrical on all sides, whatever that means.

Maybe aliens are real and here today, or not. It remains to be seen what the truth is, but why spoil my fun and ponder about the possible dullness of reality, instead of the exciting undiscovered reality.


-------


