
00:00 - 30:27

- the narrator/protagonist has a neurological condition
that gives him at most "dog years" to live
- works at a poorly maintained gas station
- sees a lot of weird things during his shift
and said that normalcy is a human construct
- says something about mutated racoon of evil variety
- his condition plus the weirdness of the place
made him act apathetic to the incident later on
- he was visited by a strange short lady, she used
the bathroom, and made some purchases,
but her credit card wouldn't work, so
as an alternative payment, offrered to
read the protag's fortune
- the lady said he was cursed,
but he said he knew that already,
thinking she was referring to his illness
- he was shortly afterwards then visited
by two anxious customers, a man with
a tattooed man with bad hair haircut,
and a gorgeous young lady in a pink dress
- the two was clearly scared of something
but protag acted it was nothing
- oh, the protagonis name is jack, I thought
that was the author's name?
- too information dense, better read as a book
than heard as an audiobook, I had to focus
intently to follow along, which kind of 
defeat the purpose of an audiobook(?)
- the voice acting is sometimes a bit hard to
understand, I thought it was just my non-native ESL ears,
but I listened to an alternative narration
on youtube, and I could understand that part just fine
- make technical commentaries too


uhh, first things first, I like the "world building"
part, where mystery and trouble was promised to happen
later on. But, the way jack acted while interacting
with the two clearly troubled customers seemed
really off for me. I know, given his backstory,
his nonchalant behaviour was not entirely unexpected.
It's according to his character, but at the same time,
it really killed the mood for me. I was already
invested in the world building, I was really into
the mysterious setting, but then Jack's lack
of urgency and his misplaced commitment to 
the landline policy really betrayed all the mystery
build-up until now. I don't think this is a fundamental
problem with the hybrid genre of comedy-horror.
I just think that scene with the anxious man and woman
feels like it's poorly executed. If that part is supposed
to be comedic, then no, it fell flat on its face,
like a stumbling scary clown who's having choice crisis
between being a scary and funny.

Yet, a part of me still wants to stay with Jack
a little more, and see how he would act once he
realizes it's not just the usual weirdness
he's seen before, not the cult-guys-shaving-the-cows weird, 
but weirdness that made you wish you visited 
the church more often.

Maybe it's my expectations are misplaced.
I did jump into this audiobook blind,
without any established preconceptions.
The mistake may have rooted on the fact that
I judged an audiobook by it's audiocover...? If that
makes any sense.

------------

"What's wrong with you!?" bellowed the pink-
dressed woman. She was asking Jack, but
the question may as well be directed at me.
I don't work as a cashier in a desolate gas station
on the edge of nowhere, but I can relate to Jack.
We look out through the same kind of window
glass pane everyday. Without any future, 
a deadpan stare that elicits zero reaction
from the weird shit before our eyes,
I wonder to myself what am I even doing,
yet enjoy the moments of solitude scrolling
through the weirdness I see on the internet.

----------------

Dear Santa,

It's been a while since I last wrote to you.
Two decades maybe. No, this time I'm not
writing to you for some school homework,
with a minimum word count of a hundred.
Maybe you think, I finally found something
to wish for christmas, and I now I pen
desperately to my inner conciousness,
represented as a fictional fat bearded
man in a red suit. I always have something
I want for christmas, but years taught
me that life is a bitch, and she slaps
you and give the opposite of what yo want. 
You ain't anybody's bitch, Santa, I know, but
I'm keeping my wishes to myself, thank you
very much.

Uh, let me try this again. 
How are you doing,
Mr. Claus. For this christmas, 
I want to borrow one of your elves
to fix my broken left joycon controller.
One of the screws is busted, so
I can't pry it open. Only the magic
of christmas can unscrew it.
Just kidding, what I really want for christmas
is a widespread human genetic mutation that
makes elves a reality. It shouldn't
be a hard wish to grant, easier at
least compared to travelling around
the world giving everyone a merry christmas,
in a single clock rotation.
Also, no, I don't want those lame space 
elves from star strek, or those dwarves
you stash in your drawers. I want real life
elves as portrayed by the contemporary east asians
artists.

Setting aside whether I believe in
Santa, or that I'm way past childhood
to be writing to santa and that I've
and descended into madness, setting
those minor inconsequentials aside, 
I want you share about story I heard
from a gas station. I won't promise
this wouldn't be a bore, have
a strong coffee or two, just in case.

You might ask, what gas station,
you don't even have a car. Funny thing
to ask by someone who rides a moose
across the antartic skies, but fair enough.
Impoverished as I am, I have boundless fictional wealth,
I can afford at least three vehicles
of imagination that takes me places
beyond the human constructed borders
(without passport!?).

I'm supposed to keep this short,
but I have already failed, it seems.

Anyways, for reasons one after another,
I ended up in an unknown gas station
in some remote backwater town. 
I entered the gas station, there was
only one person inside. He was
a cashier, or 
someone who stands behind the cash register,
and his name is Jack.
Or at least, that's what it says
on his makeshift nametag. If not a name,
what else does Jack stands for?

I ponder the question as I head for 
the toilet, without a word.
Jack has his head buried in a book,
the cover illustration had a scientist
and some giant ants on them.

I went to the sink and washed
some light scratch wounds I got from
weird looking mutant racoons. On the way
to this gas station, I was munching
some sandwich and out of nowhere
a gang of unruly racoons surrounded me.
They weren't exactly attacking me, but was just trying
to steal my sandwich. I fought death for me
dear life trying to finish my sandwich before
the 'coons take something important from me.
I stood victorious as I took the last bite.
The racoons shooed themselves away with their
zebra tails in between their legs.
The battle scar wasn't deep, but I should get it
checked later on, for rabies and radiation and all.

You still with me Santa? (Elf #2125, 
if you are reading this, kindly smack Santa in the head.
Elf #442, you stay out of this.)

Get that Santa? I fought 5 raccoons
and won. Isn't that amazing? 
I hardly won anything in my life.
I wrote this letter just to say this.
Well no, not really.

Anyway, continuing on,
I conducted a quick toilet business before
heading out of the bathroom. A cowboy
dressed up in funny ways opened the 
bathroom door for me. I neither acknowledged
nor ignored the cowboy, I simply left the
toilet without deviation from my normal course of actions.
I've never been in a backwater gas station before,
so it's not my place to judge that a cowboy
in a bathroom is weird. What do you think, Santa?
By your clothing standards, I'm sure you would 
agree that nothing I said has been strange so far.

After my totally normal visit to the bathroom,
the smell of coffee put me in the right mood
to order a new sandwich, along with a cup of coffee.
Just in time for breakfast, I was about to order
something but Jack here
interrupted before I could say anything.
Well of course, this is a gas station,
not a fast food restaurant.
But no, Jack said "a quarter a minute
to use the landline". Hecking cares about
your dumb phone, I have a smart phone,
thanks to the coons who only dreamed of my sandwich.

"I'll have a sandwich and coffee" and 0
minutes of your phone, I thought.
My eyes followed to where Jack pointed,
a coffee machine in the corner. He
then pulled a sandwich out of god knows
where, and said "That'll be a total of 
dollar and ninety nine".

Dearest Santa, I hope you have been paying attention
because here's a surprise quiz.
A coffee and a sandwich, for $2.
Was Jack's price fair? Or too laissez faire?

I eagerly await your earnest response, Santa.
But before you call for the overworked elves,
let me finish my story, I'm almost done,
almost.

I hauled my breakfast tray in hand, I took
a seat on a table that faced the large
glass windows. Outside I see a creepy 
athmospheric forest, a scenery that goes
well with a cup of coffee.

With seemingly nothing better to do,
Jack the cashier took a seat not too
far away from me, and casually started
a conversation. Rather than a conversation,
it was mostly Jack talking as I sip
the coffee attentively.

Jack must be one lonely guy to be
saying all this much. Or maybe
he was that eager to share his
weird adventures as a cashier in
a backwater gas station. Either way,
his narration of the Tales from the from the gas station
was quite entertaining.

// TODO: relisten to the audiobook, and summarize
// the first half-hour here

Jack certainly has a way with his words,
quite often he detours into tangent where
he mows the unbeaten path to get his
thoughts across in unexpected ways.
I wish he just wrote all this down though,
his stories are better read as a book,
than heard as an audiobook. He also
talks a bit fast and slurs his words
sometimes. I had to intently focus
and listen keenly to keep up. One minor
lapse of distraction, and I have
to interrupt and ask him to repeat
the last few sentences.

I haven't touched my sandwich yet,
but my plastic coffee cup is almost empty.
It's been half an hour, I await for Jack to 
cool down and wrap up his story, before
I get a refill.

I started nibbling my sandwich as Jack
recounts the events that occured
several nights ago.

Jack retells how one night, 
an anxious pair of customers
entered the premises, a man and a woman.
They were clearly scared out of their wits
based on Jack's descriptions.
The two customers consist of one tattooed
man, and one pink-dressed woman. They
were panicking about a monster that took
the woman's boyfriend.
They were acting like their life was in grave danger,
but Jack nonchalantly brushed it off as a nothingburger
served by the local harmless cultists
and the crazy raccoons.
The tattooed man asked to use the phone, to
which then Jack insists to pay a quarter
for a minute.

"What's wrong with this guy!?" bellowed the pink-
dressed woman. She was referring Jack, but
the question may as well be directed at me.
I don't work as a cashier in a desolate gas station
on the edge of nowhere, but I can relate to Jack.
We look out through the same kind of window
glass pane everyday. Without any future, 
with butt on seat for hours on end a day,
a deadpan stare that elicits zero reaction
from the weird shit before our eyes,
I wonder to myself what am I even doing,
yet enjoy the moments of solitude scrolling
through the weirdness I see on the internet.

"What's wrong with them?" said Jack to me,
as if seeking affirmation. 

I think undertand Jack's position since we
are similar in some ways. Yet I cannot
agree with the way he acted. I heard a phone rang
somewhere, Jack cut his story
short, and walked away to attend to
the phone.

What do you think, Santa? Did you notice
anything strange about Jack's tales?
This isn't a surprise quiz, but a takehome
assignment.

This is the first thing I noticed: the customers
weren't actually couples. In fact, the woman's
boyfriend just got taken away by a monster. The
tattooed man just happened to be there,
and they both fled the scene and on to
the gas station. The weird part is that
they acted like couples to each other, 
like married couples in fact, whom
they cared for the life of other dearly so much.
Why is that weird? They literally just
met minutes ago, and don't know each other.
The way they acted is strange, or at least
the way Jack described them.

The second strange thing is Jack's nonchalant
behaviour in stark contrast to the two
customers' nerve-wracking anxiety. Until
that point, Jack did a good job building
up a mood of suspense and mystery as recounts
the weird things that goes with the gas station.
You would think Jack would at least display a bare
minimum concern for the two who were
clearly distressed. If not concern,
then maybe some ample curiousity.
Or for the sake of captivating narrative,
maybe play along and act like an undercover detective?
I felt betrayed by the clickbait mystery introduction.

I kind of wanted to hear the rest of Jack's
story, but I left the gas station before
Jack could finish the call, and his story.

So, what do you think of Jack's tales from
the gas station, Santa?
Do you want to hear more of it?
I can make another visit to the dinky
old gas station if you want to hear the
rest.

Well, that all I wrote this letter for.
It got rather long, and I'm too lazy
to make it any shorter. There's last one
thing I have to mention though.

...

The thing is, as with a lot 
of interesting things
in the world, Jack isn't real and
the gas station doesn't exist.
I'm just describing a portion
of a story from an audiobook.
I'm supposed to write a review for
it, but I couldn't think of anything
to write. I just used you Santa,
I used you as a narrative device
to materialize my subconscious 
thoughts into words. Jack isn't real,
nothing is real. It's all a lie,
everything is a lie. The truth
never was.

But that doesn't matter. Sometimes
the truth is irrelevant, sometimes
I just have to believe. With
the sheer infinite size of the 
universe, with the right permutations,
anything is bound to be true.
Out there, a billion light years
away, is world where Santa
has his bare feet up beside a warm
fireplace. He laughs with a merry
ho ho ho while a pair of female
elves giving him a oh oh oh.

Merry christmas, Santa. This
letter will never reach you,
but I feel better just writing it.
I wish I could be warm and open
to real people, not just to
fictional beings. Oh no,
that's not my christmas wish, Santa.
Don't get me wrong, I still want
the wish I wrote above.

Cheers,

------

Tales from the gas station is a story about Jack
who works alone at a shitty gas station at the edge of a town
(Jack's own description).
He has a neurological disorder, but that is not why he
encounters weird things reguarly during his shift. He
assures that these weird things are nothing of paranormal,
but instead are mundane things caused by boredom or corruption.

I don't have much expectations from the story, I haphazardly chose it
among the thousand others that are tagged with "mystery".
My decision to chose this one was solely based on the book title and
the cover. Don't judge an audiobook by it's audiocover,
as the saying goes. I'd like a mystery surprise though,
for better or worse, so I went in blind, without doing much research.
(But in actuality, I'm avoiding choice
paralysis from the billions of other books to pick)

My first initial impression is that Tales From the Gas
Station is a mediocre, poorly-executed mystery novel,
with Jack acting as the nihilistic, bland protagonist and narrator.
From the half hour of listening,
the only source of amusement I could find was the Jack's
creative and vivid use of expressions to paint
his story. The rest wasn't much worth commenting on,
so I am left with little noice but
to make the technical flaws as
the focus of my review. Things like how the pronunciations
are sometimes difficult to understand, or how
information-dense it is for an audiobook. Or 
how the woman in a pink dress has a terrible voice
acting. And so on.

But, this initial impression is deeply flawed. The reason
for this is that I chose to stop listening at a bad time,
around TODO:00:00. It is around this time
where I felt betrayed by the suspense and mystery that
Jack promised me at the beginning, and I was given instead
a very unconvincing development that I could only
interpret as a failed attempt at humor, when Jack
insisted to pay upfront first before using the phone
to his two terrified customers.

I did a 420° and changed my mind afterwards when
I tried and actually finished the whole first chapter.
And it was actually great, for that lack of better word.
It delivered what it promised.
Some of the issues I noticed were actually intentional,
not due to some sloppy writing or poor execution.
It was a deliberate narrative tool to subvert expectations,
just how a good mystery should be. The technical issues
are neglible once I get into it.

I can't say anything more specific without spoiling it though.



